# BIOMD0000000437: MODEL1212150000

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000437.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000437.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


Tseng2012 - Circadian clock of N.crassa

A comprehensive model of the circardian clock of fungal Neurospora _crassa_ ,
which encompasses existing knowledge of the biochemistry of Neurospora clock,
is described by Tseng _et al._ (2012). The model is validated against a wide
range of experimental phenotypes and has been used to investigate possible
molecular explanations of temperature compensation.

This model is described in the article:

[Comprehensive modelling of the Neurospora circadian clock and its temperature
compensation.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/22496627)

Tseng YY, Hunt SM, Heintzen C, Crosthwaite SK, Schwartz JM

PLoS Comput. Biol. [2012 ; Volume: 8 (Issue: 3 )] Page info: e1002437

Abstract:

Circadian clocks provide an internal measure of external time allowing
organisms to anticipate and exploit predictable daily changes in the
environment. Rhythms driven by circadian clocks have a temperature compensated
periodicity of approximately 24 hours that persists in constant conditions and
can be reset by environmental time cues. Computational modelling has aided our
understanding of the molecular mechanisms of circadian clocks, nevertheless it
remains a major challenge to integrate the large number of clock components
and their interactions into a single, comprehensive model that is able to
account for the full breadth of clock phenotypes. Here we present a
comprehensive dynamic model of the Neurospora crassa circadian clock that
incorporates its key components and their transcriptional and post-
transcriptional regulation. The model accounts for a wide range of clock
characteristics including: a periodicity of 21.6 hours, persistent oscillation
in constant conditions, arrhythmicity in constant light, resetting by brief
light pulses, and entrainment to full photoperiods. Crucial components
influencing the period and amplitude of oscillations were identified by
control analysis. Furthermore, simulations enabled us to propose a mechanism
for temperature compensation, which is achieved by simultaneously increasing
the translation of frq RNA and decreasing the nuclear import of FRQ protein.

Figure 3 of the reference publication has been reproduced using Copasi 4.8
(Build 35).

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[MODEL1212150000](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/MODEL1212150000) .

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024) .

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.


